🚀 SCENARIO 1: Airline Operations Analysis
📌 Context

You are analyzing how different airlines operate and perform.

❓ Questions
How many flights does each airline operate?
Which airlines operate more than 20,000 flights?
What is the average departure delay for each airline?
Which airline has the highest average delay?
Which airline has the most consistent (least variable) delays?
For each airline, what is the single most delayed flight?
For each airline, what is the least delayed (or earliest) flight?
Which airlines have more delayed flights than on-time flights?
🚀 SCENARIO 2: Route Popularity
📌 Context

You want to understand which routes are most commonly used.

❓ Questions
How many flights exist for each route (origin → destination)?
Which routes have more than 1,000 flights?
What is the most popular route overall?
For each origin airport, what is the most frequent destination?
Which routes have the highest average delay?
Which routes are the most consistent in terms of delays?
Which routes rarely experience delays?
🚀 SCENARIO 3: Airport Activity
📌 Context

You are analyzing airport-level operations.

❓ Questions
How many flights depart from each airport?
Which airport has the most flights?
What is the first recorded flight from each airport?
What is the last recorded flight from each airport?
For each day, what is the first flight from each airport?
For each day, what is the last flight from each airport?
Which airport experiences the highest average delays?
Which airport has the most consistent departures?
🚀 SCENARIO 4: Aircraft Utilization
📌 Context

You want to study aircraft usage patterns using tail numbers.

❓ Questions
How many flights does each aircraft (tailnum) operate?
Which aircraft flew more than 100 times?
Which aircraft is used the most?
For each airline, which aircraft is used the most?
Are there aircraft used by multiple airlines?
Which aircraft has the highest average delay?
Which aircraft has the most consistent performance?
🚀 SCENARIO 5: Time-Based Patterns
📌 Context

You are analyzing how flights behave over time.

❓ Questions
How many flights occur each day?
What is the average delay per day?
Which day had the highest delays?
For each airport, what is the first flight of each day?
For each airport, what is the last flight of each day?
Do delays increase over time within a day?
Which flights show a sudden spike in delay compared to the previous flight?
Which flights show a decrease in delay compared to the previous flight?
🚀 SCENARIO 6: Delay Behavior
📌 Context

You are focusing only on delays and patterns.

❓ Questions
How many flights are delayed vs on time?
What percentage of flights are delayed?
What is the maximum delay recorded?
What is the distribution of delays across airlines?
Which flights have delays greater than 2 hours?
Which airlines frequently have large delays?
Which flights improved compared to the previous flight?
Which flights got worse compared to the previous flight?
🚀 SCENARIO 7: Group-Based Filtering
📌 Context

You need to filter data based on group conditions.

❓ Questions
Keep only airlines with more than 10,000 flights
Keep only routes with more than 500 flights
Keep only aircraft used more than 50 times
Keep only airports with high average delay
Keep only airlines where average delay is below a threshold
Filter flights that are the first in their group
Filter flights that are the last in their group
Filter flights that are extreme (max/min) within group
🚀 SCENARIO 8: Row-wise Comparisons (Lead/Lag)
📌 Context

You compare each flight with previous/next flights.

❓ Questions
Compare each flight’s delay with the previous flight
Compare each flight’s delay with the next flight
Find flights where delay increased from previous flight
Find flights where delay decreased from previous flight
Find flights where delay stayed the same
Find flights where change in delay is greater than 30 minutes
Detect patterns of increasing delays
Detect patterns of decreasing delays
🚀 SCENARIO 9: Ranking & Ordering
📌 Context

You need ranked insights.

❓ Questions
Rank airlines by number of flights
Rank routes by popularity
Rank airports by traffic
Rank flights by delay
For each airline, rank flights by delay
Find top 3 delayed flights per airline
Find least delayed flights per route
Rank aircraft by usage
🚀 SCENARIO 10: Mixed Challenge
📌 Context

Combine multiple concepts.

❓ Questions
For each airline, find the most frequent route
For each airport, find the airline with most flights
For each route, find the aircraft used most
For each airline, find the first and last flight
For each day, find the most delayed flight
For each airline, calculate delay trend over time
Find airlines that improved over time
Find routes that became worse over time


🚀 SCENARIO SET 1: Airline Performance
🧩 Scenario

You are working for an airline analytics team analyzing flight delays and operational efficiency.

❓ Questions
Find airlines that:
Have at least 10,000 flights
Have an average departure delay of less than 5 minutes
For each airline:
Find the flight with the maximum departure delay
Find flights where:
The departure delay increased compared to the previous flight within the same airline
🚀 SCENARIO SET 2: Airport Traffic
🧩 Scenario

Airports want insights into traffic patterns and route popularity.

❓ Questions
Find routes (origin → destination) that have more than 1500 flights
For each route (origin, destination):
Find the first recorded flight
For each airport and each day:
Find the last flight of the day
🚀 SCENARIO SET 3: Aircraft Usage
🧩 Scenario

You are analyzing aircraft utilization and efficiency using tail numbers.

❓ Questions
Find aircraft that:
Have flown more than 200 times
For each airline:
Find the aircraft (tailnum) with the highest number of flights
🚀 SCENARIO SET 4: Time-Based Patterns
🧩 Scenario

You are studying how delays change over time.

❓ Questions
Find flights where:
Departure delay increased by more than 30 minutes compared to the previous flight
For each airport and each day:
Find the first (earliest) flight
🚀 SCENARIO SET 5: Advanced Analysis
🧩 Scenario

You are identifying consistency and variability in performance.

❓ Questions
Find airlines where:
The standard deviation of departure delay is less than 10
Find routes (origin → destination) where:
Delays are consistent (low variation)
🧠 CONCEPTUAL QUESTIONS
❓ C1

What is the difference between:

count(carrier)
group_by(carrier) |> summarise(n = n())
❓ C2

When should you use:

add_count()
count()
❓ C3

Why can this be problematic?

group_by(origin) |> head(1)
❓ C4

What is the difference between:

slice_head()
filter(row_number() == 1)
❓ C5

Why is it important to use arrange() before lag()?

🏆 CHALLENGE QUESTION
❓ Q13

For each airline:

Find the longest streak of increasing departure delays
